CS 520
Assignment 3
The goal of this assignment is to empirically determine the characteristics of memory and le system
at the linux-lab machines
Determine virtual memory characteristics
Recall the various page replacement algorithms you have learnt. Design, if possible, an experiment to
determine which page replacement algorithm is being used on the linux lab machines, or explain why
such a determination can not be made.
You should provide the rationale behind your experiment design, show detailed experimental results
(so that your work can be verified), and also explain why your results show that the particular page
replacement algorithm is being used. 5 marks.
Hint: you may determine whether a particular memory access results in a page fault or not by
measuring the time required to complete it. It may take a number of measurements to figure out typical
delays when page fault happens.
Determine file system characteristics
Recall that hard drives usually express a seek time, and a disk bandwidth. Design, if possible, an
experiment to determine these values for the local disk on linux-lab machines, or explain why such a
determination can not be made.
You should provide the rationale behind your experiment design, show detailed experimental results
(so that your work can be verified), and also explain why your results show the disk has the given
characteristics. 5 marks.
Hint: You may be able to create large enough files on /tmp so that different offsets within the file are
sufficiently far apart to observe seek time delays. Also, be careful not to be affected by any read-ahead
or buffering used in typical disks.
Important Note on Grading
Grading depends on a combination of correct experiment design, correct implementation, documentation
of code, providing details of experiments and presenting results in an informative manner, analysis of
results, and drawing correct conclusion from experimental results.
Submission
 Submit on elearn tar file of your code and experimental results in elearn. You should have a
README file explaining the contents of file.
 Submit on elearn a document explaining the experimental design, presenting results, and drawing
the appropriate conclusion.
 Ensure your name and login name appear in each file you submit.